Refactor forms overview (#36919)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/forms-overview.md

Angular provides two different approaches to handling user input through forms: reactive and template-driven. Both capture user input events from the view, validate the user input, create a form model and data model to update, and provide a way to track changes.

This guide provides information to help you decide which type of form works best for your situation. It introduces the common building blocks used by both approaches. It also summarizes the key differences between the two approaches, and demonstrates those differences in the context of setup, data flow, and testing.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes that you have a basic understanding of the following.

* [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/home.html "The TypeScript language") and HTML5 programming.

* Angular app-design fundamentals, as described in [Angular Concepts](guide/architecture "Introduction to Angular concepts.").

* The basics of [Angular template syntax](guide/architecture-components#template-syntax "Template syntax intro").

## Choosing an approach

Reactive forms and template-driven forms process and manage form data differently. Each approach offers different advantages.

> * **Reactive forms** are more robust: they're more scalable, reusable, and testable. If forms are a key part of your application, or you're already using reactive patterns for building your application, use reactive forms.

Reviewer: I need in the first sentence some kind of explanation of what a reactive form is. Something like "provides access to low-level APIs and synchronous access to the form model".

> * **Template-driven forms** are useful for adding a simple form to an app, such as an email list signup form. They're easy to add to an app, but they don't scale as well as reactive forms. If you have very basic form requirements and logic that can be managed solely in the template, use template-driven forms.

Reviewer: I need in the first sentence some kind of explanation of what a template-driven form is. Something like "each form element is linked to a template directive that manages the form model internally."

> * **Template-driven forms** rely on directives in the template to create and manipulate the underlying object model. They are useful for adding a simple form to an app, such as an email list signup form. They're easy to add to an app, but they don't scale as well as reactive forms. If you have very basic form requirements and logic that can be managed solely in the template, use template-driven forms.

Reviewer 2: Just a small nit on the very last bit "use template-driven forms". Can we soften that recommendation a bit to something more like "template-driven forms may be a good fit"? It would actually be better if nobody used template driven forms at all. It's something that we've considered deprecating altogether.

||Reactive|Template-driven|
|--- |--- |--- |
|[Setup of form model](#setup) | Explicit, created in component class | Implicit, created by directives |
|[Data model](#data-flow-in-forms) | Structured and immutable | Unstructured and mutable |
|Predictability | Synchronous | Asynchronous |
|[Form validation](#validation) | Functions | Directives |

### Scalability

If forms are a central part of your application, scalability is very important. Being able to reuse form models across components is critical.

> Reactive forms are generally  more scalable than template-driven forms, for a number of reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reactive forms are more scalable than template-driven forms for the following reasons:
```

> Reactive forms are  more scalable than template-driven forms. They provide direct access to the underlying form API, and synchronous access to the form data model, making creating large-scale forms easier.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Reactive forms are more scalable than template-driven forms. They provide direct access to the underlying form API, and synchronous access to the form data model, making creating large-scale forms easier.
```

> * **Reactive forms** provide access to low-level APIs and synchronous access to the form model, making creating large-scale forms easier.

Reviewer: This bullet doesn't need to start in bold. The 2 bullets flow from the previous sentence.

> Reactive forms requires less setup for testing, and testing does not depend on the change-detection cycle when updating and validating the form and data models.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Reactive forms requires less setup for testing, and testing does not require deep understanding of change detection to properly test form updates and validation.
```

> Reactive forms requires less setup for testing, and testing does not require deep understanding of change-detection to properly test form updates and validation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Reactive forms require less setup for testing, and testing does not require deep understanding of change detection to properly test form updates and validation.
```

Reactive forms requires less setup for testing, and testing does not depend on the change detection cycle when updating and validating the form and data models.

> * **Template-driven** forms focus on simple scenarios, are not as reusable, abstract away the low-level APIs, and provide only asynchronous access to the form model.

Reviewer: This should not be a bullet and not start with bold.

The abstraction of template-driven forms also affects testing.

> Tests rely on the change-detection cycle, and require more setup.

Reviewer 3: Technically all tests rely on change detection. The distinction is that with template-driven forms, you may not realize that you have to run change detection multiple times to accurately reflect what happens at runtime. So it's easy for your tests not to match reality.

```suggestion
Tests are deeply reliant on manual change detection execution to run properly, and require more setup.
```

* `ControlValueAccessor` creates a bridge between Angular `FormControl` instances and native DOM elements.

{@a setup-the-form-model}

### Setup in reactive forms

With reactive forms, you define the form model directly in the component class.
The `[formControl]` directive links the explicitly created `FormControl` instance to a specific form element in the view, using an internal value accessor.

The following component implements an input field for a single control, using reactive forms. In this example, the form model is the `FormControl` instance.

<code-example path="forms-overview/src/app/reactive/favorite-color/favorite-color.component.ts">
</code-example>

> The following diagram shows how, in reactive forms, the form model is the source of truth; it provides the value and status of the form element at any given point in time, through the `[formControl]` directive on the input element.

Reviewer: Do we use figure numbers? I have been doing that in my refactors (so far), calling them figures and providing numbered captions as in "**Figure 1**. *Caption in italics*

**Figure 1.** *Direct access to forms model in a reactive form.*

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms-overview/key-diff-reactive-forms.png" alt="Reactive forms key differences">
</div>

### Setup in template-driven forms

In template-driven forms, the form model is implicit, rather than explicit. The directive `NgModel` creates and manages a `FormControl` instance for a given form element.

The following component implements the same input field for a single control, using template-driven forms.

<code-example path="forms-overview/src/app/template/favorite-color/favorite-color.component.ts">
</code-example>

In a template-driven form the source of truth is the template. You do not have direct programmatic access to the `FormControl` instance, as shown in Figure 2.

**Figure 2.** *Indirect access to forms model in a template-driven form.*

<div class="lightbox">
  <img src="generated/images/guide/forms-overview/key-diff-td-forms.png" alt="Template-driven forms key differences">
</div>

{@a data-flow-in-forms}

## Data flow in forms

> When an application contains a form, Angular must keep the view in sync with the component model, and the component model in sync with the view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When an application contains a form, Angular must keep the view in sync with the component model and the component model in sync with the view.
```
nit: It looks like the last part is a dependent clause so the comma shouldn't be there

1. Any subscribers to the `valueChanges` observable receive the new value.

<div class="lightbox">

>   <img src="generated/images/guide/forms-overview/dataflow-reactive-forms-vtm.png" alt="Reactive forms data flow - view to model" width="100%">

Reviewer 3: This image looks a little off.  A little too large and pixelated?

is updated to the value emitted by the `ngModelChange` event (*Blue*).

<div class="lightbox">

>   <img src="generated/images/guide/forms-overview/dataflow-td-forms-vtm.png" alt="Template-driven forms data flow - view to model" width="100%">

Reviewer 3: These template-driven form diagrams still look a lot bigger than the reactive forms ones (in other words, blown up instead of centered). Can we make it consistent?

## Testing

> Testing plays a large part in complex applications and a simpler testing strategy is useful when validating that your forms function correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testing plays a large part in complex applications. A simpler testing strategy is useful when validating that your forms function correctly.
```
